# air-pollution

The level of pollution has increased with times by lot of factors like the increase in population, increased vehicle use, industrialization and urbanization which results in harmful effects on human wellbeing by directly affecting health of population exposed to it. In order to monitor quality of air, a Wireless sensor network (WSN) based new framework is proposed which is based on data acquisition and transmission. The parameters of the environment to be monitored are chosen as temperature, humidity, volume of CO, volume of CO2, detection of leakage of any gas -smoke, alcohol, LPG. The values of these parameters are transmitted by using ESP 8266 Module to a base station where they are being monitored. The value of temperature and humidity are transmitted over Wi-Fi also so that every person in the range of the system can check it over their smart phones and laptops as these parameters hold importance to everyone. CO, a dangerous parameter is monitored with an extra precaution. The main objective of the project is to create a system which will monitor the quality of air in our environment which can be achieve with the following specific objectives To check the air quality relative to standards or limit values, To enable comparison of the air quality data from different areas and countries, To inform the public about the air pollution and raise the awareness and To collect data for the air quality management and environmental. System testing falls within the scope of black-box testing, and as such, should require no knowledge of the inner design of the code or logic. The research was an experimental project, the data was collected from the system and transmitted to IoT cloud based called Thinkspeak for analysis.
